README.md, before:

# Ski-Resort-Simulation
Ski lift simulation project for UVic CSC 446 (Simulations in Operations Research)

The casy study for this particular simulation will be Mount Washington Ski Resort located on Vancouver Island.
## Purpose
- Design and implement a discrete-event simulation of the resort lift and runs.
- Evaluate key metrics that include the average wait time, lift utilization, and total skier throughput.
- Explore optimizations to the system, such as adjusting lift capacities/speeds and reconfiguring the queue network (newer runs/connections, new lifts, etc.) This will help to inform the resort on what the system bottlenecks are and give evidence on what should be upgraded.

## Description
 The simulated resort would be made of a small queueing network:
- **3-5 Lifts (Nodes)**: These would be the nodes that are made up of a queuing system (Most likely a batch queuing system with deterministic service time and customer pickup time). 
- **Connecting Runs (Edges)**: Skiers travel on these from one lift to another. Here there will be set probabilities for where the skier goes when leaving a lift (same lift, different lift, leave resort, etc.). There will also be a set "Travel Time" when moving through these edges.
- **Skiers (Customers)**: Arrive at the base area following a poisson distribution.
    
### Queueing Network
Here is the run and lift network for Mount Washington Ski Resort that is used as reference for creating the queuign network used in the simulation.

Commit message:

Added queuing network info
Corrected a typo in the description of the queueing network.

README.md, after:

# Ski-Resort-Simulation
Ski lift simulation project for UVic CSC 446 (Simulations in Operations Research)

The casy study for this particular simulation will be Mount Washington Ski Resort located on Vancouver Island.
## Purpose
- Design and implement a discrete-event simulation of the resort lift and runs.
- Evaluate key metrics that include the average wait time, lift utilization, and total skier throughput.
- Explore optimizations to the system, such as adjusting lift capacities/speeds and reconfiguring the queue network (newer runs/connections, new lifts, etc.) This will help to inform the resort on what the system bottlenecks are and give evidence on what should be upgraded.

## Description
 The simulated resort would be made of a small queueing network:
- **3-5 Lifts (Nodes)**: These would be the nodes that are made up of a queuing system (Most likely a batch queuing system with deterministic service time and customer pickup time). 
- **Connecting Runs (Edges)**: Skiers travel on these from one lift to another. Here there will be set probabilities for where the skier goes when leaving a lift (same lift, different lift, leave resort, etc.). There will also be a set "Travel Time" when moving through these edges.
- **Skiers (Customers)**: Arrive at the base area following a poisson distribution.
    
### Queueing Network
Here is the run and lift network for Mount Washington Ski Resort that is used as reference for creating the queueing network used in the simulation.

[MountWashingtonTrailMap_compressed.pdf](https://github.com/user-attachments/files/23554554/MountWashingtonTrailMap_compressed.pdf)

The resulting queueing network with the assumed probabilities for moving through the resort is shown below.

[CSC446QueueNetwork.pdf](https://github.com/user-attachments/files/23554595/CSC446QueueNetwork.pdf)
